---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome! I am a PhD Candidate in the [Department of Political Science](https://politicalscience.unc.edu/) at [the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill](https://www.unc.edu/). I earned my M.A. in Political Science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 2018 and my B.A. in Political Science and International Affairs from [the University of Georgia](https://www.uga.edu/) in 2016. My research interests include American politics, U.S. Congress, political parties, and elections. Most recently, my research has focused on how differences in gender and political experience affect candidate self-presentation in primary elections. This work is [forthcoming](dissertation) in *Political Research Quarterly*. 

My [dissertation](research) explores the state of modern campaigns for Congress. I argue that all congressional elections today are not national and that some candidates still "go local," reacting to their specific constituency and taking up issues important to their district. To that end, I show that theories of strategic candidate behavior must be updated to better reflect what locally-oriented campaigning looks like in today’s era of nationalized politics. Departing from existing work that considers campaigns as either national or local, I conceptualize nationalized and locally-oriented campaigns as opposite ends of a spectrum of choices. I argue that many candidates adopt national party positions while *also* highlighting local concerns. My analyses suggest that local issues are still present in today's campaigns *but* their adoption is mostly limited to two-party competitive districts. Running as a D or R in these races is a liability rather than an asset. Moderate voters---who are vital to winning competitive races---can be put off by candidates who place the party they belong to ahead of the people they want to represent. Running on local issues, then, may win over these centrist voters by demonstrating a commitment to the district. In 1970, over 40 percent of districts were considered competitive. Today, a paltry 10 percent of districts fall into this category. I contend that increasingly safe districts are partially to blame for today's nationalized campaigns. 

My dissertation also show that the "national" issues in a candidate's campaign platform may actually be *less* nationalized than they appear at first blush. I argue that, in some instances, candidates "go local" through the rhetoric they use to discuss nationally important issues. For instance, in a content analysis using text-as-data, I show that Republican candidates in 2018 tended to be less tough on crime and friendlier towards rehabilitation programs if their congressional district was especially affected by the Opioid Epidemic. Republican candidate framing of these issues deviates from their party's position, which indicates responsiveness to local conditions. In another chapter, I also show that candidates "go local" by reacting and responding to their same-party competition in the primary. In 2018---an election know as the ``Year of the Woman"---only \textit{half} of Democratic male candidates included platform points related to women's equality in their campaigns. Male Democrats' adoption of these issues seems surprisingly low, especially in the wake of national events like the Women's March and #MeToo. Coupling my text data with matching methods for causal inference, I find that it was not the national salience of women's issues in 2018 that prompted Democratic men to take up female-related polices but, rather, whether or not they were running against a woman in their own primary election.

To measure the degree to which a candidate’s campaign is locally-oriented, I embark on an ambitious data collection effort. I have collected the policy platforms from campaign websites for all primary election candidates for the House of Representatives who ran in 2018. These data are unique in that they (1) provide a near complete picture of modern campaigns for Congress, and (2) constitute the first comprehensive text collection of campaign platforms. 


